Hirani-S.  Winchester-B-G.

Detection of cystic fibrosis homozygotes and heterozygotes with
plasma [letter].

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  GENETIC-TECHNICS.  MANNOSIDASES: bl.

CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  HETEROZYGOTE-DETECTION.  HOMOZYGOTE.
HUMAN.  HYDROGEN-ION-CONCENTRATION.

Dr Hosli and Esther Vogt base their diagnosis of heterozygotes and
homozygotes for cystic fibrosis on the thermal stability in plasma or
extracellular fluids of alpha-mannosidase and/or phosphatase activity
assayed at pH 5.4.  The activity of alpha-mannosidase in plasma and
this pH is a composite one: both acidic alpha-mannosidase, which has
a pH optimum of 4.25 and intermediate alpha-mannosidase, which has a
pH optimum of 5.6 - 6.0, will contribute to the activity measured at
pH 5.4.  These two forms of alpha-mannosidase are structurally and
genetically distinct and have different kinetics and
thermostabilities.  Therefore the total alpha-mannosidase activity at
pH 5.4 and the physicochemical properties of this activity will
depend upon the relative proportions of the two types of
alpha-mannosidase in the sample.  The proportions of the two forms
vary widely in normal plasma, especially in plasma from children.
Although the data of Hosli and Vogt suggest that the total
alpha-mannosidase at pH 5.4 does not differ significantly between
controls, CF heterozygotes and CF homozygotes, they do not show
whether the proportions of acidic and intermediate alpha-mannosidase
have changed.  An increase in the proportion of the thermolabile
intermediate alpha-mannosidase in CF would be manifested as a
decreased thermostability of alpha-mannosidase at pH 5.4.
Alternatively a mutation in the normally stable acidic
alpha-mannosidase leading to a less stable form would also be
reflected as a decreased stability in the activity at pH 5.4,
especially if the proportion of acidic alpha-mannosidase was
increased in CF.  These situations should also be considered as
possible explanations of the observations, in addition to the one
favoured by Hosli and Vogt.

