Stuart-A-B.  Burdon-M-G.

Letter: Frequency of cystic-fibrosis gene.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.  GENE-FREQUENCY.

CAUCASOID-RACE.  HETEROZYGOTE.  HUMAN.  POLYMORPHISM-GENETICS.

An unsolved problem in human population genetics is the high
frequency of the gene for cystic fibrosis (C.F.) in Caucasians.
Whereas the gene frequency is probably low enough in non-Caucasians
to be maintained by recurring mutation, this is not the case in
Caucasians, where the carrier frequency is approximately 1 in 25.
In order to establish a stable genetic polymorphism for a gene
where the homozygous state is lethal, some degree of heterozygote
advantage must exist, and it has been suggested that C.F.
heterozygotes have a higher reproductive fitness than normal
individuals.  It is not possible, of course, to know exactly how
stable the C.F. polymorphism is, and one cannot exclude the
possibility that some form of heterozygote advantage has existed at
some time in the past and no longer exists today.  We should like
to suggest a possible explanation which has much in common with the
generally accepted explanation for the very high frequency of the
sickle-cell gene in certain populations.  In the latter case,
heterozygotes have an increased resistance to a particular type of
malaria.  Patients with C.F. and heterozygous carriers have been
found to have, in their serum, a substance (probably a protein)
that agglutinates Proteus vulgaris.  Immunological cross-reactivity
between certain strains of Proteus (e.g., OX 19) and Rickettsia
prowazeki has long provided the basis of a serological test for
typhus (Weil-Felix reaction).  Thus it is conceivable that the C.F.
heterozygote might have an increased innate ability to counter
infection by R. prowazeki.  Although typhus is known in many parts
of the world, it seems to have been predominantly endemic and
epidemic in the temperate regions inhabited by Caucasian peoples.
Some areas where it is now endemic, such as South America, first
experienced the disease after it had been introduced by Europeans.
This would seem to be compatible with the observed higher C.F. gene
frequency in Caucasians than in other groups.

