Wood-R-E.  Boat-T-F.  Doershuk-C-F.

Cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.

BIOLOGICAL-TRANSPORT.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co, pp, th.
EXOCRINE-GLANDS:  pp.  FEMALE.  GASTROINTESTINAL-DISEASES: et.
GENITAL-DISEASES-MALE:  et.  GENITAL-DISEASES-FEMALE: et.  HUMAN.
LUNG-DISEASES: et, pa.  MALE.  MUCUS: me.  PANCREAS: pp.  PROGNOSIS.
PSYCHOLOGY.  REVIEW.  SOCIAL-ADJUSTMENT.  SWEAT.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

Cystic fibrosis is the most frequent lethal genetic syndrome among
white children and is the cause of much of the chronic progressive
pulmonary disease encountered in children.  Because of the
increasing adolescent and adult population of patients with cystic
fibrosis and their psychosocial, employment, and treatment needs,
this review, whenever possible, will emphasize aspects pertinent to
older patients.  No known biochemical or structural defect will
account for all the pathophysiologic phenomena of cystic fibrosis.
Thus, the definition of the disease rests on the clinical findings;
cystic fibrosis is a syndrome, and not yet a disease.  Incidence
figures for cystic fibrosis are necessarily minimal.  The best
diagnostic efforts currently available fail to detect all those who
die at a young age or who have mild symptoms.  Several pieces of
evidence indicate that cystic fibrosis is transmitted as an autosomal
recessive trait.  An autosomal recessive inheritance for cystic
fibrosis suggests a discrete biochemical or structural defect.  To
date no single lesion has been proved to provide a unifying
hypothesis for the pathophysiology of cystic fibrosis.  Exocrine
gland dysfunction, mucociliary transport, immunology, ciliary
factors and transport mechanisms are discussed.  The manifestations
of cystic fibrosis involve many organ systems and the pattern of
presentation is variable.  Respiratory, gastrointestinal,
genitourinary, and sweat gland manifestations are discussed.  There
are at least 3 possible approaches to screening for cystic fibrosis:
sweat testing, evaluation of pancreatic function, or detection of
some product of the defective gene.  Prenatal diagnosis and
heterozygote testing, diagnosis in adults, and diagnostic problems
are also examined.  Treatment includes prevention, pulmonary therapy,
and gastrointestinal therapy. Pulmonary and other complications and
their treatment are discussed, as well as psychosocial aspects, and
evaluation and prognosis of cystic fibrosis.

