Pancreatitis in children [letter].

PANCREATITIS: fg.

AMYLASES: bl.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co, di.
FEMALE.  HUMAN.  INFANT.  PANCREATITIS: et.  PREGNANCY.

"Hereditary pancreatitis" is important for at least three reasons:
(1) It is probably not an uncommon form of pancreatitis in children
and young adults; (2) the course of the disorder may be chronic, with
substantial long-term morbidity, including an apparently increased
risk for pancreatic cancer; and (3) once having made the correct
diagnosis, occurrence among siblings and/or offspring (and perhaps
other relatives) of the proband may be expected.  Hereditary
pancreatitis is an autosomal dominant trait with apparently complete
penetrance, though markedly variable expressivity.  It would be
reasonable to point out that hereditary pancreatitis should be
entertained whenever an alternative diagnosis is not documented, even
without a positive family history. - We agree with the statement by
Jordan and Ament in a recent article that "acute pancreatitis is one
of the rarer causes of abdominal pain in children and is among the
least reported and characterized."  However, their discussion of this
problem is surprisingly incomplete.  Familial pancreatitis, one of
the most important causes of pancreatitis in childhood, is not even
mentioned; cystic fibrosis is barely acknowledged.  These two
conditions as well as hypolipoproteinemia and ascariasis (also not
mentioned) should be included in the differential diagnosis of
pancreatitis in children and of otherwise unexplained abdominal pain
in this age group. - We appreciate the concern that we did not
diagnose hereditary pancreatitis in any of our patients.  None of the
ten patients with "idiopathic pancreatitis" had a family history of
pancreatitis documented in their charts.  Cystic fibrosis (CF) is not
a common cause of pancreatitis in our center.  We chose to omit
ascariasis from our differential diagnosis because in the developed
countries it is unlikely to be a common cause of pancreatitis.

