Dearborn-D-G.

Water and electrolytes of exocrine secretions.  pp.  179-91.

BICARBONATES: me.  CALCIUM: me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: me.
EXOCRINE-GLANDS: se.  SODIUM: me.  WATER: me.

BRONCHI: se.  ESCHERICHIA-COLI: me.  GLYCOPROTEINS: me.  HUMAN.
MONOGRAPH.  MUCUS: se.  CHOLECYSTOKININ: pd.  POLYAMINES: me.
REVIEW.  SECRETIN: pd.  SWEAT: se.  TRACHEA: se.
SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

It has been recognized that the levels of water and electrolytes are
deranged in many, if not all, of the exocrine secretions of cystic
fibrosis patients.  The sodium and chloride levels in serous
secretions from CF patients are elevated.  In contrast, the more
protein-rich or mucoid, isotonic secretions (viz, from the pancreas
and tracheobronchial mucus glands) are found to have sodium
concentrations near normal or even somewhat decreased.  However,
these secretions have significantly reduced water content.  The
abnormalities in hypotonic secretions appear to rise from a decreased
Na+ reabsorption in the ducts.  The low water content of the isotonic
secretions of CF patients appears to result from decreased secretion
of water and electrolytes.  Early studies on tracheobronchial
secretions from CF patients led investigators to suggest that the
primary defect may be a decrease in the levels of water and
monovalent ions.  In an attempt to provide a unifying hypothesis, it
has been suggested that an increased calcium concentration in the
various exocrine secretions leads to a "hyperpermeability" of the
mucus linings and thus to an excessive loss of water and small ions.
The concentration of calcium in exocrine secretions appears to follow
the concentration of proteins and especially the mucous
glycoproteins.  It was suggested that calcium may be an important
factor in the increased viscosity and insolubility of CF mucus.
Organic ions are also potential perturbants of macromolecular
structure.  In addition to a possible perturbant role, polyamines
have a potential role in water and electrolyte transport.

