Cystic fibrosis: thyroid function and alpha fetoprotein [letter].

ALPHA-FETOPROTEINS.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  THYROID-GLAND: pp.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  FEMALE.  HUMAN.
MALE.

Our recent studies showed normal serum thyroxine but lower serum
total and free tri-iodothyronine and higher serum thyrotropin
concentration in children with cystic fibrosis than in controls
matched for age and sex.  Furthermore, administration of iodides to
children with cystic fibrosis resulted in goiter decrease in serum
thyroxine and increase in serum thyrotropin concentration.  Our
studies point to multiple derangement in thyroid hormone economy in
children with cystic fibrosis.  Peripheral deiodination of thyroxine
to tri-iodothyronine may be defective, probably as a result of a
state of malnutrition.  An intrinsic abnormality may also be present
in the thyroid gland.  Iodide, which is frequently used in this
disease, may enhance this defect, occasionally producing
hypothyroidism.  Therefore, the thyroid, like other organs of
endodermal origin (lung and pancreas), may be involved in cystic
fibrosis.  Thyroid function should be examined in all children with
cystic fibrosis, and if iodides are administered, replacement doses
of thyroid hormones should also be given to prevent hypothyroidism.
- A recent review of cystic fibrosis referred to the report by
Chandra et al. that the serum level of alpha fetoprotein (AFP) is
increased in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) or heterozygotes who
bear the CF gene.  The report of Chandra et al. had prompted us to
assess the level of AFP in cystic fibrosis, and we wish to record
here briefly our negative observations.  On the whole, these results
suggest that AFP is not increased in cystic fibrosis. - We thought
that the complications of therapy with iodides or other agents was
beyond the scope of our review, and thus we did not discuss the very
interesting observations of the high rate of goiter after iodide
therapy in CF patients.  Whether this phenomenon indicates a
subclinical thyroid defect related to CF per se or is a secondary
effect of chronic illness in youth is still unsettled.

