Desor-J-A.  Maller-O.

Taste correlates of disease states: cystic fibrosis.

CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: co.  TASTE-DISORDERS: et.

ADOLESCENCE.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  COMPARATIVE-STUDY.  FEMALE.
HUMAN.  MALE.  PANCREAS: pa.  SODIUM-CHLORIDE: du.  TASTE-BUDS: pp.
TASTE-DISORDERS: di.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.

The purpose here was to test for a generalized abnormal sensitivity
of the external chemoreceptive systems using a standardized method
that separates sensory activity from biasing factors known to affect
measurement of sensitivity.  The frequency distributions of salt
taste sensitivity for patients with cystic fibrosis are given.
Normal siblings and control patients did not differ statistically,
and they were combined into a single control group for analyses.  The
patients with cystic fibrosis did not differ as a group from the
normal subjects in salt sensitivity.  There were, however, two
children with cystic fibrosis with taste sensitivities well below
those observed among the normal children.  No age or sex differences
in sensitivity were observed.  The taste sensitivity of the children
with cystic fibrosis did not correlate with the Shwachman and
Kulczycki rating of the severity of their disease.  Of the seven
children who had determinations of sweat electrolytes at the time of
taste testing, three failed to excrete sufficient amounts for
measurements.  Patients with cystic fibrosis, as a group, were not
found to have more sensitive taste acuity than normal.  This
corroborates the findings of Wotman and associates and strongly
suggests that a general abnormality of the taste system is not
routinely symptomatic of cystic fibrosis.  Henkin and Powell
hypothesized that extremely acute taste is related to elevations in
the concentration of electrolytes in sweat.  This seems unlikely
since the patients given sweat tests in the present study all had the
high levels of sodium and chloride characteristic of cystic fibrosis,
yet all had taste sensitivities in the normal range.  Wotman and
associates suggested that perhaps the severity of the disease
accounts for the appearance of hypersensitivity in the chemoreceptive
systems.  The clinical ratings of the severity of the disease did not
correlate with taste sensitivity.

