Lebenthal-E.  Shwachman-H.

The pancreas--development, adaptation and malfunction in infancy and
childhood.

PANCREATIC-DISEASES.  PANCREATITIS: et.

AMYLASES: df.  CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di, th.  ENTEROPEPTIDASE: df.
HUMAN.  INFANT.  METHODS.  NEUTROPENIA: di.  PANCREAS: ab, em.
PANCREATIC-CYST: cn.  PANCREATIC-DISEASES: di.  PANCREATIC-NEOPLASMS.
PEPTIDE-HYDROLASES: df.  SYNDROME.  TRYPSINOGEN: df.

Pancreatic development begins during the fourth week of gestation.
In annular pancreas, the ventral pancreas fails to migrate to the
right of the duodenum.  Duplication of the pancreatic ducts is a
rare entity, probably arising from accidental misplacement of
mucosal cells from the duodenum or stomach during the development of
the pancreatic pouches.  Congenital pancreatic cysts may be single,
multiple, unilocular or multilocular and can be associated with
polycystic disease of the kidney, liver or spleen.  Ectopic pancreas
occurs before or during the rotation of the ventral pancreas and its
fusion with the dorsal pancreas.  Few tumours of the pancreas have
been reported in children less than 15 years of age.  The evaluation
of patients via different pancreatic function tests is significant
only when the results are interpreted in the light of clinical
manifestations.  Tests of exocrine pancreatic function in childhood
include stool examination, the triolein test, blood examination,
analysis of duodenal contents, the secretin-pancreozymin test,
pancreatic scanning with selenomethionine, transduodenal
pancreatogram, abdominal ultrasound and arteriography, and upper
gastrointestinal x-ray.  The most prevalent disorder of the pancreas
in infancy and childhood is exocrine pancreatic insufficiency.  Well
over 96 per cent of infants and children with pancreatic
insufficiency have cystic fibrosis.  Shwachman syndrome is the
second most common cause of pancreatic insufficiency and is
associated with neutropenia, metaphyseal dystosis, sever stunting of
growth, eczema, and susceptibility to infections.  Patients with
cystic fibrosis who have partial pancreatic insufficiency sometimes
show dissociation of different enzyme activities.  Although
pancreatitis is comparatively rare in infancy and childhood, we
suspect that it is often overlooked.

