Wilson-J-D.  Goldstein-J-L.

Classification of hereditary disorders of sexual development.

SEX-DIFFERENTIATION-DISORDERS: cl.

ANDROGENS: bi, me.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS.  FEMALE.  GENES.  GENITALIA: em.
HERMAPHRODITISM.  HUMAN.  MALE.  OVARY: em.  PHENOTYPE.
PSEUDOHERMAPHRODITISM.  REVIEW.  SEX-DETERMINATION.
SEX-DIFFERENTIATION.  SEX-REVERSAL-GONADAL.  TESTIS: em, ab.
TESTOSTERONE: me.  TURNERS-SYNDROME.  SUPPORT-U-S-GOVT-P-H-S.
UTERUS: ab.  VAGINA: ab.

We have recently proposed a classification of the disorders of sexual
development based upon the presumed site of action of the abnormal
gene during embryogenesis.  These disorders, which may be either
genetic or nongenetic in nature, are the result of disturbances in
the physiology of sexual differentiation during embryogenesis.  The
purpose of this review is to summarize the current physiologic
concepts of normal sexual differentiation, to review the known
hereditary disorders of sexual development, and to consider briefly
the implications that these mutations have for the understanding of
normal sexual differentiation.  The translation of genetic sex into
phenotypic sex is a complex process.  Since some 19 hereditary,
single-gene determined disorders of sexual development are currently
recognized that involve loci on both the autosomes and the X
chromosome, it can be inferred that at a minimum 19 genes and hence
19 discrete biochemical steps are involved in this process.  At least
10 mutations result in male pseudohermaphroditism, whereas only 2
mutations are known to cause female pseudohermaphroditism.  The
predominance of male type of mutation is the result of the fact that
the formation of the male phenotype is actively induced by the
secretions of the fetal testis whereas the formation of the female
phenotype does not require secretion from the fetal ovary.  The end
result of these mutations that involve the formation and action of
testosterone can be similar, and it requires anatomic,
endocrinologic, and genetic study of individual patients to identify
the mutant genes involved.  Undoubtedly, many more as yet
unidentified genes must participate in sexual differentiation.  The
identification of these genes will depend on the continued
delineation of new simply inherited clinical syndromes.  Any
fundamental understanding of the programming of events in phenotypic
differentiation will require not only the identification of the genes
involved but the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms by which
each of these genes is expressed.

