Weeke-B.  Flensborg-E-W.  Jacobsen-L.  Jorgensen-B-A.  Lykkegaard-E.
Hoiby-N.

Immunochemical quantitation of 18 proteins in sera from patients
with cystic fibrosis: concentrations correlated to class of
fibroblast metachromasia, clinical and radiological lung symptoms.

BLOOD-PROTEINS: an.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: bl.  FIBROBLASTS: me.

ADOLESCENCE.  ADULT.  CHILD.  CHILD-PRESCHOOL.  ENGLISH-ABSTRACT.
FEMALE.  FLUORESCENT-ANTIBODY-TECHNIC.  HUMAN.
IMMUNOELECTROPHORESIS.  LUNG-DISEASES: bl.  MALE.

Sera from 32 patients with cystic fibrosis classified according to
fibroblast metachromasia into three classes have been analysed
immunochemically for the concentrations of 18 serum proteins.  In
addition, the clinical and radiological status of the lungs were
evaluated, using two scoring systems.  Eleven of 16 serum proteins
differed from the values of a thousand-donor serum pool.  The most
pronounced differences from the control sera were elevated
acute-phase proteins, notably haptoglobin, alpha1-antichymotrypsin,
IgG, and IgA, and low serum albumin and alpha2-HS-glycoprotein.
Patients from metachromatic class III presented the most pronounced
rise in acute-phase proteins and, furthermore, significantly
decreased complement C3 and IgM, IgG and IgA were normal in class III
patients.  These differences from the control sera possibly reflect
inflammatory tissue damage involving immune reactions.  The clinical
score was positively correlated to the radiologic score, and both
these scores were positively correlated to the concentrations of
eight and seven, respectively, of the serum proteins, and negatively
correlated to three of the serum proteins.  Based upon the
correlations between the scores and the concentrations of some of the
serum proteins, it is recommended that longitudinal prospective
studies follow individual patients for the concentrations in serum of
haptoglobin, albumin, IgA, IgG, C3, and, eventually, IgM and
alpha1-antichymotrypsin.  The present results suggest that these
serum proteins will yield valuable information as regards prognosis
and therapy of the lung disease in CF.

